Monster/Trap list:
Floor 1:
Zombie/Skeleton
Rolling Boulder/Arrow Trap
Boss: Ghost
Floor 2:
Zombie/Skeleton/Ghost
Rolling Boulder/Arrow Trap/Pitfall Trap
Boss: Wraith
Floor 3:
Zombie/Skeleton/Ghost/Wraith
Rolling Boulder/Arrow Trap/Pitfall Trap/Spike Trap
Boss: Lich

Paladin: Super goodie-two-shoes, over the top.
Rogue: Self-centered, sarcastic, wants money.
Wizard: Ancient, only cares about learning more spells, eccentric.
Bard: Cracks jokes constantly, kind of an airhead.

Necromantic Catacombs style dungeon, maze like stuff, small corridors, lots of traps and undead nasties.

	On the edge of the town of Riverton there is a large, black building jutting out of the center of a graveyard. Every night for the past week, the townsfolk have heard strange moans and the rattling of bones coming from it. On the first night, they sent a messenger to the local city, Cityton. After a week of terror, the messenger has returned with a party of brave adventurers in tow. Upon their arrival to the town the adventurers are greeted with cheers and smiles, the villagers ecstatic with the thought of salvation! Due to its small size, the town of Riverton has only a small tavern, with no rooms for guests. The adventurers head straight there, hoping for more information and a stiff drink before heading into the crypt.

	As the party enters the inn, the waiting Elder hears a man say, “Bard, I don’t know why you insist on drinking before every single mission. It dulls the mind! A true adventurer only needs the good grace of Shallya, lady of mercy, to slay the foul undead!” The first member of the party to entire is a bard who is in the middle of yelling back about how drinking is a necessary part of any mission. The next person to walk through the door is a radiant man clad in full plate, who upon seeing the Elder proceeds to ignore the bard and walk straight over. “Hello, I am Paladin. Me and my companions, Bard, Rogue, and Wizard will have no trouble handling your little necromantic problem. Is there anymore information you can give me?” “I’m afraid not, lad. One of our braver hunters went into the crypt to try and see what was inside, but it’s been days and he hasn’t come back. I fear the worst has occurred, however if you could save him we would be grateful.” Upon hearing this, one of the adventurers chimes in with “How grateful would you be if we could recover him?” “Rogue, that’s enough!” “I’m afraid we are a poor village, but we could spare a few gold for his body, and twice that if you could come back with him alive!” Paladin: We will do what we can, come on adventurers time to combat evil!”


In the Crypt:

Morgan Freeman Voice: The brave? Adventurers enter the crypt, torches blazing and the rogue immediately quips
“Yaknow, I get the whole ‘scary crypt’ aesthetic, but surely chains on the walls is a bit much.
Bard: “Yeah like why would you even want chains this far up. Why would you put your prison next to the entrance of your dungeon?”
Paladin: “Quiet, take this seriously you too! There is a potentially dead villager down there, and we are his only hope!”
Wizard: “Plus, think of all the spells this necromancer must know!”
All: “Groan:”
Paladin: Come on, let’s get to work!

First Floor:

First traps:
Rogue: Is that a boulder trap or is the dungeon master just happy to see me?
Bard: Well, I don’t know about the dungeon master but…
Paladin: Can you two please, PLEASE take this seriously. A man’s life is in jeopardy! Rogue, do you think you can disarm the trap?
Rogue: I could disarm this trap in my sleep. Hey wait, do you think this is a dream?
Wizard: Statistically speaking, yes. Have you seen the traveling minstrel show, the Matrix? It’s an interesting hypothesis about how we are all merely figments of the higher Gods’ imagination.
Bard: Uh… Wizard I’m pretty sure that’s a fiction show.
Wizard: …
Bard: …
Rogue: Trap’s disarmed, hate to break up the party but let’s get going.

First skeletons:
Bard: Well, I was hoping to catch a good bone in this town, but these skeletons are taking this a bit too seriously…
Paladin: Come on Bard, w e’ve been over this: Less talking, more buffing.
Wizard: Skeletons are such an interesting strain of necromantic constructs. Raw mana is the only thing holding them together, yet it performs the same as the muscles we humans have. Perhaps we, too, are held together by mana?
Rogue: Either way, everything dies when you stab it in the head.
Paladin: Try to focus on the fight, we must save this peasant, my god commands it!

First zombies:
Rogue: I love zombies! It’s so easy to pick their pockets.
Paladin: Please don’t desecrate the dead Rogue, its unseemly.
Bard: Zombies are so gross, there are brains on my armor…
Wizard: Zombies aren't nearly as fascinating as skeletons, they are basically just reanimated humans. Boring.

Crossroads:
Paladin: I sense undead down both of these paths, which one shall we delve into?
Bard: We should pick the one with less zombies, my armor is getting ruined.
Rogue: I think we should avoid skeletons, they have no pockets to pick.
Paladin: Wizard, can you sense anything magical down either tunnel? Perhaps that one has more magic in it. In addition, any kind of rituals that are being performed on the villager should be close to the necromancer.
Wizard: *Makes magic check* (maybe have whole party make an intellect check or smth mechanics wise) Pass: I think there is a greater flow from the left tunnel. I can’t wait to add to my spellbook. Fail: I think there is a greater flow from the right tunnel. I can’t wait to add to my spellbook.
Rogue: I hope this is the right tunnel, I want to get out of these creepy catacombs.

First floor boss:
Rogue: That is one angry ghost. 
Paladin: It matters not, I will destroy this unholy horror with the strength of my faith!
Wizard: Couldn’t I study it a little longer? It really seems like a unique specimen.
Paladin: No! We must hurry forth and save the innocent!
Bard: Perhaps if I sang it a love song, it would calm down!
Rogue: It didn’t seem to like that…

Second Floor:
As the brave adventurers enter the second floor of the dungeon, they feel the aura grow more ominous. The clanking of chains becomes more pronounced, and the adventurers feel the fear of the crypt begin to overwhelm them.
Paladin: Fear not, brave comrades! The forces of evil hold no sway over my holy faith!
With his words, the party feels more confident and the evil aura dims. As the party leave the stairway, the see ghosts and wraiths milling about in a massive open room. 

First ghosts: 
Rogue: Hey, none of my attacks work on these guys.
Paladin: Maybe if you had converted to the one true religion and were more holy, you could fight the foul abominations of the catacombs!
Wizard: Or if you practiced and learned the arcane arts.
Rogue: Yeah I’ll stick to stabbing backs and picking pockets, thank you very much!
Bard: Man, I don’t know why these ghosts react so badly to my advances. I prefer more human monsters…

First trap:
Bard: Pitfall traps give me such a falling sensation. Really puts me down in the dumps you know?
Paladin: Rogue, do you think you can disarm this?
Rogue: Can a dragon fly? Of course I can disarm a simple trap like this.
Wizard: You know, there are some interesting treatises on whether or not certain strains of dragons can fly. I think I have a copy of it somewhere in my bag of holding, let me check…
Rogue: It’s just a saying Wizard.

Middle/earlyish of second floor:
Paladin: Rogue, what can you make of these blood splatters and these strips of cloth?
Rogue: Well, I’m not a ranger so this really isn’t my specialty, but it looks like the villager might have fought back here and tried to escape. I can’t really tell how badly he was injured in the attempt.
Bard: That’s a lot of blood, we should probably hurry. Or you know, we could just give him up for dead.
Wizard: The human body can only take a certain amount of blood loss!
Paladin: Thank you for that fact, Wizard. We must hurry and save this poor soul!

First zombies + skeletons:
Paladin: This clearly must be a powerful necromancer, I have never seen zombies and skeletons work so closely in tandem. This is truly a dangerous dungeon, luckily the power of my faith will protect us!
Rogue: I think you should focus more on the power of your sword, start swinging big guy!
Wizard: You know, this raises interesting questions about the habits of zombies and skeletons if they were left to their own devices. Would they coexist or fight for domination? Perhaps there is a treatise on that somewhere…
Bard: My armor is getting filthy I hate undead dungeons. Can we wrap this up and come back later?
Paladin: No! We must save the villager, onward for faith and justice!

Towards end of second floor:
Wizard: If this aura is any indication, we are nearing a powerful monster. However, I don’t believe it is the necromancer we seek, it doesn’t feel nearly magical enough.
Paladin: Then we must defeat this foul monstrosity and then delve deeper so we may cleanse this land of evil!
Rogue: We get it, you fight for justice and faith blah blah blah. Let’s just get done with this so I can get paid.
Bard: Our pay isn’t even going to cover my laundry fees. Why do I let you talk me into things like this, Paladin?
Paladin: For justice! 

Second Floor Boss:
Bard: I don’t think I’ve ever seen a wraith that big. This necromancer must be truly dangerous to control such a powerful monster.
Wizard: Indeed, I will greatly enjoy going through his grimoire. You can find valuable spells in the strangest of places, did you know many of the most advanced healing spells are actually based on necromantic research?
Paladin: Please don’t utter such sacrilege in my presence! The power powerful the necromancer, the more my faith will hurt him. Our victory is assured!
Rogue: Wait until we defeat this wraith before you start thinking about the necromancer, it looks pretty mean.
Bard: Well, here it comes!

Third floor entrance: Narrator: As our heroes begin approaching the third floor they feel a shift in the air. The catacombs suddenly feel far more dangerous, as if someone flipped a switch channeling death magic.
Wizard: The necromancer has begun a ritual, we must hurry if we want to stop him before he becomes too powerful!
Paladin: It is most likely a sacrificial ritual, if we do not hurry the villager will die and we will have failed!
Rogue: Well, at least we can avenge him!
Paladin: He isn’t even dead yet…
Bard: Well…
Narrator: Sighing, the Paladin leads the adventurers into the third floor, where they are met with the sight of ghosts, skeletons, zombies, and even wraiths.

First wraiths:
Paladin: What are these foul spirits? They are corrupted with anger and violence. I have never seen so many vengeful spirits in one place before. We must purge them, for faith and justice!
Wizard: They are called wraiths, and there creation is actually quite an interesting process. I read quite the treatise on them in the newest issue of Wizard’s Yearly, if you any of you are interested.
Rogue: I’d much rather learn how to destroy them, if that isn’t too much to ask for.
Bard: Should I hit them over the head with my guitar? Do you think that will work?
Wizard: Probably not.
Paladin: Just buff us and we will take care of these foul monstrosities!


First trap:
Bard: Look at this.. My beautiful armor is full of holes. I really hate spike traps, they have no respect for fashion.
Paladin: It is good the light of faith is here to heal us when we make mistakes! Rogue, why didn’t you see that trap?
Rogue: Again, I’m not a Ranger. My specialties are picking pockets and cutting throats, not searching for and disarming traps.
Wizard: My specialization is all of magic, because I could not fathom picking just one type to study, they are all so fascinating.

Middle of dungeon:
Wizard: I can sense the spell more and more the closer we get, it will be finished soon. If we want to study the spell formulae we will have to hurry.
Paladin: I think you mean if we wish to save an innocent life from the depths of evil we must hurry!
Bard: I’m just saying, we could really call it quits now. Like, my armor is so gross, and I’m gonna need to spend at least an hour at the bathhouse.
Rogue: Come on, let’s get this over. There’s a good 10 mugs of ale with my name on it at the tavern.
Paladin: You know the goddess doesn’t approve of drinking, you should try temperance!

First ghosts and wraiths:
Wizard: How interesting, the ghosts are subservient to the wraiths. I wonder if this is paralleled anywhere in any other monster strains.
Bard: It reminds me of hobs and goblins. I really hate hobs, disgusting creatures.
Paladin: Does it really matter how they interact, we will slay them for justice either way. Faith!
Rogue: I’ll take cold steel and a dark hallway over faith any day.
Paladin: Good thing we have both!

Towards end of dungeon:
Wizard: We are close to the necromancer, but I can feel the ritual will be complete any second.
Rogue: Finally, this took forever. I thought you said this would be easy, Paladin.
Paladin: Everything is easy when you have faith in justice and light! Let’s take care of this lich and cement ourselves in legend!
Bard: I’ve sung plenty of songs about heroes, I’m not sure if we quite measure up. Well, I certainly do, I don’t know about you lot.

Final Boss:
Paladin: That’s no necromancer, that’s a lich. I should have brought my bigger sword, luckily my faith is the biggest sword of all!
Rogue: That’s a lot of sword talk buddy, feeling like you gotta overcompensate big guy?
Bard: Rogue, even I think now’s not the time for a jokes. That’s a lich, yaknow the most terrifying form of undead?
Wizard: Fascinating, simply fascinating.
Paladin: That’s enough chatter. Do not worry brave villager, we will rescue you from this vile lich! With the power of faith, justice, and companionship we cannot be defeated!
Villager: … Is he serious?
Bard, Rogue, and Wizard: Yes.
Lich: Foolish adventurers, do you really think you can defeat me in my lair? This is the end for you.

Ending:
Narrator: After slaying the vile lich, and saving the villager, the adventurers head to the entrance of the catacombs. As they walk up they notice a marked decrease in the aura of death within the catacombs.
Paladin: Brave companions, we have done good work today! We have vanquished a great evil and saved a helpless villager!
Villager: Uh, thank you?
Paladin: You are most welcome my friend!
Rogue: Yeah I guess we did do good, although maybe next time we can do good for a little higher salary? My drinking budget has really taken a hit the last few jobs we took.
Bard: No more undead, please. They really do destroy the wardrobe. I’m going to have to go shopping next time we are in town.
Wizard: Perhaps we can deal with elementals next time? I’ve already got quite a stockpile of information on undead for my research.
Paladin: We go where the winds of justice take us, wherever that may be!
All: Sigh.

